## About The Project

### Project: Data Warehouse
#### Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. 
Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to. 
You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

#### Project Description
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. 
To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

#### Project Datasets
You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json

##### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

##### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

### Repo Contents

README.md : This file, explaining the purpose and usage of the Repo

LICENCE.txt : Details of the licence for this project

create_tables.py : Creates the required tables in a redshift staging area

etl.py : The pipeline itself; this loads the datafiles into the database tables

sql_queries.py : A list of the SQL queries to be used to create tables and load data

### Built With

* Python
* AWS - Redshift

## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running follow these simple steps.

### Prerequisites

* A Redshift cluster on AWS
* A Python IDE

### Installation

1. To clone the repo:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/sama26/udacity-cloud-warehouse.git
   ```

## Usage

1. Launch a redshift cluster and create an IAM role that has read access to S3.

2. Add redshift database and IAM role info to dwh.cfg.

3. Run 'create_tables.py' to create the postgres create_tables

4. Test by running create_tables.py and checking the table schemas in your redshift database. You can use Query Editor in the AWS Redshift console for this.

5. Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift.

6. Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from staging tables to analytics tables on Redshift.

7. Test by running etl.py after running create_tables.py and running the analytic queries on your Redshift database to compare your results with the expected results.

8. Delete your redshift cluster when finished.

### Sample query
TODO - [Optional] Provide example queries and results for song play analysis.
An example query that can be used on this dataset would be the following:

   ```sh
SELECT u.first_name, u.last_name, s.location FROM songplays s
JOIN users u
ON u.user_id = s.user_id
WHERE s.level = 'paid'
GROUP BY u.first_name, u.last_name, s.location
   ```
This should return the following:

   ```sh



   ```
   
## Schema Design and ETL Pipeline
TODO - State and justify your database schema design and ETL pipeline.


## Contributing

Feel free to contribute if you really want, but I have no plans to come back to this project:

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/FeatureName`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/FeatureName`)
5. Open a Pull Request
